Do you remember back in school when they said that the stone blocks cut by the
ancient Egyptians were so precise that you couldn't fit a razor blade or even a
human hair in between them? Well, this is what they meant.
Look at that the precision cut of these massive and extremely
hard granite blocks is so unbelievably exact that it's difficult to even
differentiate the two stones together, the high definition camera itself,
despite all its mega pixels struggles to pick up this line.
It's something that can only be truly appreciated when viewed in person with the
naked eye. And if you think this is impressive,
wait until you see the photos from other parts of ancient Egypt that I'm gonna
show you later in this video.
But what you're seeing here are the enormous polygonal stone blocks that make
up the valley temple,
which is located in front of the great Finks and Giza Egypt.
This is one of those sites that most people are unaware of as the great Finks
and the pyramids get all the attention, but it is without a doubt,
one of the most spectacular sites found from ancient Egypt.
Many of these rose granite blocks are well over 30 tons of piece.
However,
the immense difficulty to construct a temple made out of polygonal shaped
granite piece together as if a tight fitted puzzle,
it is next level difficulty made to last millennia and survive even the
strongest of earthquakes. And when I said that these stones are massive,
you have to compare them to people to truly appreciate their size.
And that's me there I'm five foot, 10 or 178 centimeters.
Even with this photo, you can't truly,
as this was shot with an ultra wide camera lens,
which distorts the true size and the bulk of these blocks,
particularly their widths.
It does not do it justice for what your eyes witness here in person. And,
and by the way,
this particular block is closer to 50 tons in weight and brought from more than
500 miles away,
which the experts theorize must have been carried by boat down the Nile
river. However,
the bizarre reality is that even the largest known ancient Egyptian boat ever
found couldn't possibly sustain even a fraction of the weight of these
stones make no mistake. The mystery is real.
Hence why there is a surging us by millions of people from around the world into
our lost ancient past.
But that aside in going back to the unbelievable precision that makes up these
stones,
notice that from a distance you can't possibly appreciate just how tightly cut
and formed together. They are.
You see many of these blocks are cut with rounded edges,
thus creating a sea or groove a of sorts between the blocks.
But when you get up close,
you can see that in the middle of these seams is a cut so perfect that they are
completely flushed together as if they were laser cut. In fact,
they almost look fused together and you'll find awesome examples all throughout
this magnificent structure. Take this example here from a bit of a distance,
you wouldn't realize just how exact the cut is. Again,
due to the breadth of the seams,
virtually all the blocks that make up this astounding stone complex are like
this. It's simply fascinating from a distance.
You wouldn't think much of the methods used to cut these stones,
but it's not until you get up close that you can appreciate the level a of
accuracy. It truly is next level,
but you should know that this is not some one off fluke example.
As there are counts, others found throughout the land of ancient agent,
even the ground itself has been lined with such unbelievably precise stone
blocks that without careful inspection, you might not notice at all.
And like I just said, stone cuts that are so fine.
That it's difficult for even cameras to pick up on, just compare this line,
cut to a hotel room key, which is of course the size of a credit card.
The exactness of these two blocks that are pieced together makes the width of
that card look thick in comparison, because again,
notice how you can hardly see that line from even just a few feet above it.
And you'll be curious to know that this example here is only a few steps away
from the great pyramid of Giza. In fact, it's right next to it.
You see something that most people are not aware of is that the entire ground
surrounding the pyramids are covered in flooring stones and there thousands of
them, many of which are polygonal in shape,
cut and piece together perfectly again, as if a puzzle you see,
it becomes even more interesting when you realize that these stones have been
there for at least 4,500 years beneath
the blaring sun and elements of erosion, including wind rain, weather,
and of core millions of humans that have walked on stumbled and further
deteriorated. These blocks in the thousands of years since,
and examples of polygonal flooring stones can be found at various temples
throughout Egypt, even in the most unlikely places,
such as the roof of the temple of hot tour in Dendera hundreds of
polygonal stones, which although weathered and eroded upon a closer inspection,
you can see just how precise these stone cuts are,
but getting back to the even more impressive stuff, wait until you see this,
the so-called bent pyramid of Egypt is a place that very,
very few people have seen with their own eyes.
As it's been close to the public and even archeologists for several decades,
even the most notable researchers have been denied access to enter inside this
pyramid. That is until it finally opened in the summer of 2019.
And I had the great timing and privilege to me among the very first tourists to
enter this utterly bizarre structure in December of 2020.
And I filmed the higher thing.
And if you're interested in seeing the incredibly bizarre interior structure and
layout of this pyramid,
you'll wanna check up my video tour of it after this video.
But when you enter inside and traverse the tunnels of cut limestone,
that makes up the structure, you see precision cuts,
the likes of which are nothing short of astounding.
Look at that. Like I mentioned earlier,
many of these cuts are so exact that it's difficult for the camera to
differentiate the blocks together.
Even notice this example of three stone blocks joined,
ignore the damage and imperfect exterior portions of the block,
which naturally catch your eye and focus on the line, cuts themselves.
Whoever built this clearly chose to make the fitting of the blocks to a level of
perfection while focusing less on the exterior portion of blocks that make up
the pyramid tunnels.
And you'll notice that this is the case from Florida ceiling throughout this
pyramid. And these blocks are by no means small yet.
Cut so perfectly that the align so tightly that not even a razor or human hair
could fit in between them,
I'd even venture to say that they're probably watertight as well and do not be
fooled by their soft chalk like appearance.
You could push your fingernail into this stone as hard as you possibly could,
and it wouldn't even scratch it. As the saying goes,
they are as hard as a rock in examples like this,
where we see the intersection of three stone blocks,
connecting at such a fine degree of accuracy provides us with a wonderful
perspective.
That illustrates just how remarkable the capabilities were for the people that
made this. But that's the thing.
And this is where things start to get really weird.
So before I show you more astonishing photos,
there's something you need to know.
And most people are completely surprised at what I'm going to share next,
because it shows just how truly mysterious the ancient Egyptians are.
You see these bronze chisels here. And just so you know,
bronze is a combination of copper and 10,
but you see these other various bronze tools here as well,
including small handheld saws.
And here are a few more examples of various Egyptian tooling,
all of which are on display in the chiro museum, Egypt. I took these photos,
myself.
All of these tools you're seeing are literally the only examples
of the types of known tools utilized by the ancient Egyptians that have ever
been found. Just to clarify,
these are not the only number of chisels or saws ever found,
but they are the only types of tooling ever found to exist from the ancient
Egyptians. That's right. And here's something else you need to know,
is that out of the hundreds of thousands of,
of hieroglyphics found throughout the land of ancient Egypt,
not one single one of them shows anything about how the Egyptians cutter carved
stone or constructed the pyramids, literally zero whatsoever.
And that's a verifiable fact, by the way,
it's just that most people are completely surprised when they hear that for the
first time you see what happened is we were sewn animations like these as
children in school,
not realizing that this is nothing more than some theorized drawing created only
recently for school textbooks, a bunch of primitive dudes wearing nothing,
but loing cloths using soft bronze chisels to shape the stones that make up
the pyramids of Egypt.
But here is the reality of what happened when people actually tested these
primitive alleged methods. In modern times.
After days of work,
their copper chisels and stone pounders are barely making a dent.
Brown is wearing down tools at an extraordinary rate.
The copper chisel,
the ancient Egyptians would've used last only a few dozen strikes.
That was a notable Egyptologist testing,
stone hammers and bronze chisels on limestone in an attempt to recreate the
sink's nose.
And you heard what they said after a few days of work and they barely made a
dent and the chisels themselves after just a few dozen strikes were worn out and
useless. So clearly not a feasible explanation. And,
and what you didn't see is that later in this documentary,
they completely gave up and resorted to using power saws to finish the task.
But that was bronze to chisels on limestone.
Wait until you see what happened when he tried it on granite.
When Roger tries chiseled made from bros, the results are disappointing.
As you can see,
we're just leaving a lot of metal and very little stone is flaky. Ah.
Yeah. So no,
obviously bronze chisels were not the methods of tools utilized by the Egyptians
or, or anyone to cut and carve stone of any kind,
which is why it is so bizarre to see that this is still a primary
explanation that is taught today.
They even have it posted as this descriptions within museums.
And the reason for this is because the people writing ancient history books in
modern times have concluded that these must be the types of tools that were used
since they are the only types of tools that have ever been found.
So case closed mystery solved,
but they proclaim that without ever having tested these primitive alleged method
themselves and bronze chisels aside,
the more commonly accepted explanation for cutting the granite and limestone
blocks involves copper saws. But again,
these are the only examples of saws ever found from the ancient Egyptians.
And not only that,
the only depictions of the Egyptians using saws of any kind are the these right
here, which clearly shows them using small saws to cut wood for constructing
furniture.
So watch what happens with that same Egyptologist mark Laneer used a copper saw
to demonstrate how it could have been used to cut granite blocks.
All right, we have a big block of granite here.
So how's this copper gonna cut this granite.
Even with teeth, the copper alone is too soft.
We're going to put sand inside the groove and we're going to put this so on top
of the sand and then let the sand do the cutting.
Now, Dennis, will we see any progress in our lifetime? Yes. Um,
if you came back in an hour's time,
you would see about a four millimeter crop down into the stone. You're kidding.
In an hour, you'll be four millimeters down. Well,
I've been doing a lot of experiments and I can guarantee that this will cook
through the stone. That's about four millimeters an hour.
The sign went wonderful. Once we switched over to using, uh,
water with the sand. As you can see here,
we achieved this in just a few days.
Four millimeters an hour, and in just a few inches over a few days,
are you kidding me?
So besides the fact that no saw of this size was ever found nor was there any
saw of this size ever found to be depicted by the Egyptians,
but we can clearly see that this method is so unbelievably so or slow that it
could possibly be a feasible explanation for how the Egyptians cut and carve the
millions of stones that make a up the pyramids,
because keep in mind that the great pyramid of Giza is made of some
2.3 million stone blocks and was said to be constructed over
approximately 20 years. That means that they would've had to cut, carve,
move in place,
at least one stone block every few minutes to achieve that timeline.
And this does not include the many millions of more stone blocks that make up
more than a hundred other known pyramids found throughout Egypt.
Many people are not aware of just how many Egyptian pyramids there are.
And all of which were said to be done within a very specific timeline for their
respective Pharaoh,
at least according to alleged story that we've been taught in modern times.
And I wonder are just how many millions of blocks would make up that 118
pyramids, because of course they're all of differing sizes and dimensions,
and this does not include the many millions of stone blocks that make up the
dozens of various temples found throughout Egypt. This is just a few examples,
all of which were made from countless stack blocks,
nor does it include the countless flooring stones that surround these temples
and the pyramids of Giza itself,
nor does it include the hundreds of various structures, including betas,
all of which are made of stone blocks,
nor does it include the countless stones that make up the many columns founded
dozens of sites throughout Egypt,
nor does it include the many gigantic stone OS giant
stone boxes,
as well as the countless stone SAR kava guy found all over the place far more
that could possibly be shared in this video.
And nor does it include the thousands of incredible stone statues that have been
found throughout the land of ancient Egypt.
And it sure doesn't include all of the, uh, the random,
incredibly shaped granite stones that are once part of structures that are long
since gone impeccably, curved, granite,
that couldn't possibly be done with the known tooling found in Egypt is at least
as far as what you've just seen,
and you don't have to be a stone Mason archeologist,
or even a fricking rock and scientist to comprehend that these tools here copper
saws and chisels did not create the cuts of this level of precision.
And this certainly does not even address the size of these stones and the time
it would take to do it, which is of course,
a major factor that must be considered.
But there's even more proof that these blocks were not cut with two guys holding
onto some handheld saw this granite sarcophagus is one of many
that are on display and the chiro museum in Egypt. However,
what makes this particular stone box so unique is that it's listed as being
discarded by the Egyptians. As on the other side,
you see that they may made a mistake and the cut and it went off center.
But this in itself is evidence that the Egyptians were not using some
unbelievably slow primitive handheld saw, because if that was the case,
they would've noticed and corrected their mistake almost immediately.
The fact that it continued off center from nearly another three feet strongly
indicate that they were using a method that was far quicker and superior.
The evidence is right in front of us. Like I always say,
look and think for yourself,
there are far too many details that weren't shown to us when we learned about
the Egyptians as kids.
But when you revisit this amazing topic as an adult with more life experience
and the ability to use discernment,
you can see just how real the mystery is yet.
Despite all the details I shared in this video,
many will still adamantly defend these debunked narratives.
But you have to keep in mind that many of these people that propose these
alleged methods have never actually been to each of themselves and nor have they
physically tried to cut stone block with these primitive methods either.
And those who have attempted it have given up,
they've never finished one single block.
They do it for a little bit and realize like, oh, wow,
this is extremely difficult. And just stop right there. I mean,
isn't that interesting because between all the stone cut blocks that make up the
hundreds of pyramids, temples, various stone structures, flooring stones,
columns, OS statues, stone boxes,
and Sarco guy and everything else.
I wouldn't be surprised if the Egyptians cut at least 50 million stone blocks,
maybe even closer to a hundred million perhaps. I mean, who knows yet,
you will not find one single example in modern times of a
fully cut stone block that was done with these primitive methods.
Isn't that interesting?
You have the Egyptians with tens of millions of stone blocks,
maybe even a hundred million. I'm just throwing out a number here,
but tens of millions, no doubt. And yet we haven't done one in modern times.
It's clear that the ancient Egyptians had some sort of lost technology
by technology.
We shouldn't just think computers and lasers and anything else in our mind that
technology itself can be something quite simple. I mean,
even a saddle on a horse is considered a technology.
We have to think out the box outside the box and it doesn't have to involve
aliens, cuz that's usually what people say when they argue against these,
these methods say, oh, so let me guess you think it was aliens, right?
It's like, what's that about? Like, I'm not suggesting aliens.
And very few people that are discussing these methods have said aliens.
It's just that you need to look at this with open eyes and see that the mystery
is here. When you see this stuff as an adult,
you can see just how real the mystery is, but I'm gonna wrap it up here.
My next video will be out very, very soon. And if you wanna see more amazing VO,
uh, pictures of these stones go to my Instagram,
I'll leave it link down in the description and I'll leave it a link for my
TikTok. I created an accounts. Haven't put a video up yet,
but I have to now branch out in order to bring more people to this channel.
And I, I didn't wanna get on TikTok, but now I realize that that,
that platform's just too big and it's not going away. So if you're interested,
go on there because I'm gonna be making a whole bunch of videos in a short
period of time to launch that thing. But anyways, I'll leave it at that.
My name's Jimmy, my channel's called brighten insight. Take care of everybody.